Deaths by State 
In this project we found data that shows the number of deaths by state and their causes. We studied the data file and provided visualizations of the data. At the end we have a summary of our results. 
Our project is an opportunity to look at the leading causes of death in the United States. The data we selected shows the number of deaths by states and their causes. This dataset and the visuals we provided are important because they show us the prevalence of certain diseases from the years 2020-2023. In the last couple of years health in America is a crucial topic of conversation because of COVID-19. The coronavirus has made many Americans focus more on the importance of health and the causes of many diseases. In 2021 the highest number of deaths occurred in the United States, this is because the fatality rates of covid were rising while there were still a number of people suffering from other illnesses such as cancer, diabetes, respiratory diseases, influenza and more. While covid emerged and affected over 100 million Americans, the leading cause of death before covid was heart disease. Our project is essential because knowing the leading causes of death in America as well as the numbers of deaths will cause more people to engage in healthy habits and take all the right preventative measures so that they can increase their chances of not getting sick. Throughout our project we see visuals that show different aspects of the number of deaths by state. California has the top number of deaths followed by Texas and Florida. This could be because of the fact the population of states like California, Texas and Florida are larger and have more people that can be susceptible to disease. Understanding the prevalence of these diseases from 2020-2023 shows us what diseases the majority of people are suffering with in different states. More of our research shows that there could be a correlation between the number of deaths and number of hospitals in different states. The state with the most hospitals is Texas - 368 hospitals. California follows closely behind with 336 hospitals. We can also compare the number of births in a state with their death rate and see a trend in those numbers. The point of our project is to spread awareness on health disparities across the country and show how crucial it is that there are the right healthcare resources for people. With proper access to care including hospital beds and proper funding for these hospitals we can bring the death rate down and increase the quality of life for more Americans. 
